Let's spend a moment to understand what some of the pros and cons of
KSQL relative traditional stream processing application frameworks like Faust.
We're going start the benefits.
First, it's almost always simpler and faster to write SQL
than it is to build and deploy entire application like you might with Faust.
If you know SQL, it's usually pretty quick to write SQL queries.
Second, KSQL is a great fit for
problems where you're not exactly sure what the solution is just yet.
With KSQL, you can rapidly iterate on ideas with
very little work because of the fact that it provides this simple SQL syntax.
KSQL also doesn't require to have
any particular programming language experience such as
knowing Python for Faust or Java for Kafka streams.
This means that it's accessible to a much, much wider audience.
KSQL also comes bundled with important features that you
have to build yourself with Faust like logs and standard metrics.
Some of the downsides of KSQL is that SQL can at times be
difficult to use to handle certain types of data manipulation or remapping.
Another downside is that,
unlike Faust you can't just import
whatever Python library you want to use to make your life easier.
Instead, you're limited to what KSQL provides you.
What's worth noting though is that,
you can actually write your own user-defined functions but you have to do so in Java.